<h1 align="center">Gemini Morph</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#features">Features</a> &#xa0; | &#xa0;
  <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a> &#xa0; | &#xa0;
  <a href="#fine-tuning">Fine-tuning</a> &#xa0; | &#xa0;
  <a href="#authors">Authors</a>
</p>

Gemini Morph is an AI image generator based on Gemini that will serve as the image and example generator in an educational platform we have developed in the past 2 months.

<h2  id="features">Features</h2>

**🌎 Real-time Visualizations**: Our AI model generates LaTeX TikZ code to create mathematical illustrations in real-time.

**🚀 Google Cloud Platform Integration**: The backend is hosted on Google Cloud, running within a Docker container.

**🔗 Demo Access**: A demo is available on our [website](https://gemini.oktatas.ai), allowing users to generate GenAI illustrations.

<h2 id="getting-started">Getting Started</h2>

To get started, you need to clone the repository and install the dependencies for the backend. Here's how you can do it:

```bash
cd backend
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

<h2 id="fine-tuning">Fine-Tuning</h2>

Our fine-tuning process leverages the descriptions generated by the Google Gemini vision model, pairing them with the corresponding LaTeX source code of illustrations. The script begins by loading a dataset of LaTeX illustrations and defining helper functions for image processing and data management.

In the `process_images` function, we filter valid images and submit tasks to generate detailed prompts using the Gemini model. Each prompt describes the image comprehensively, capturing all relevant details. These generated prompts are then paired with their respective LaTeX code and saved to a JSON file, `output.json`, for easy retrieval and to avoid reprocessing.

Once the JSON file is prepared, we upload it to [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/tune), where the descriptions serve as input and the LaTeX code as output. This process allows us to effectively fine-tune our own Gemini model, enhancing its ability to generate accurate LaTeX code from natural language descriptions.

<p id="authors" align="center">
  Made with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/danielbacsur" target="_blank">Daniel Bacsur</a> and <a href="https://github.com/vjdad4m" target="_blank">Adam Vajda</a>
</p>
